From birth Jacob cheats his way in front of those who are ahead of him, “Then his brother came out, his hand grasping Esau’s heel, and they called his name Jacob” The cunning descendant of Abraham scams and tricks his way through life, even going as far as forcing his brother to sell his birthright for a bowl of stew and bread. In addition, Jacob poses as his brother in order to receive a blessing from their father Isaac, “And Jacob said to his father, ‘I am Esau your firstborn’” Jacob has no trouble deceiving family, as he also tricks his Uncle Laban into giving him a majority of his flock of sheep, “You need give me nothing if you will do this thing for me:” Jacob cheats his way to a fortune of livestock and slaves. Through the lies and deceit, Jacob still receives the blessing of God: “And your seed shall be like the dust of the earth” Why is it that a liar and a cheat should be deserving of the blessing of God?
       God favors those who question or “wrestle” with his judgement. Abraham questions God’s judgement when they discuss the imminent destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah: “Would you destroy the city for the five?” Abraham argues with God over the lives of the innocent, but it is not in Abraham’s place to question his creator. God instead of punishing Abraham for his doubts, blesses him with his son Isaac. Just as Abraham was rewarded, Jacob is rewarded with being named “Israel” for wrestling with God physically and spiritually. From the start Jacob would proceed with caution when God commanded him to complete a task: “If Lord God be with me…then the Lord will be my God” Jacob wants to make sure that God will put his end of the deal before he follows his orders. Jacob has trouble blindly accepting the conditions and orders placed by God. He does not possess the same trust Abraham has with following God’s orders, but he does have the same level of skepticism for his actions. 
       Jacob struggles with his faith and comes out victorious, and this is represented in his fight with a physical form of God in the forest: “Not Jacob shall your name hence be said, but Israel, for you have striven with God and men, and won out” Jacob survives the fight with only a leg disability, but spiritually he learns to become a trusting and faithful man in the decisions and words of God. 
       Jacob’s brawl with his faith explains his name change, but it still does not excuse his past wrongdoings.  He was blessed by God, yet he is not the most morally astute man in Genesis. In the real world one will find that those who have more blessings in the world are not always morally upright individuals. Jacob is a relatable figure to the masses as he is not a perfect being. Genesis asks its readers to be relate to Jacob as an imperfect human, and a “wrestler” of his faith. The text wants people to walk in Jacob’s footsteps and wrestle with their own faith. Not just accept the facts presented in The Bible, but challenge those beliefs in order to create a solid foundation for one’s faith of God. Ultimately, Jacob’s name change represents the future nature of the nation of Israel. The Israelites will have to “wrestle” with their own faith in the sense that they will reject and accept the laws of God.






